# Denoising Autoencoder for Image Classification and Generation

This project focuses on training denoising autoencoders (AE) and variational autoencoders (VAE) on an augmented version of the MNIST dataset for image classification from noisy images, and training a denoising conditiona-VAE (CVAE) on the same data for image generation.

## Project Structure

The project files are organized as follows:

- `Data/`: This directory contains the augmented MNIST dataset used for training and evaluation.
- `EncDec/`: This directory contains the implementation of the denoising AE, VAE, and conditional VAE (CVAE) models.
- `main.py`: This script is used to train the denoising AE, VAE, and CVAE models on the augmented MNIST dataset.
- `checkpoints/`: This directory contains the trained models saved during training.
- `generatedImages/`: This directory contains sample images generated by the trained CVAE model.
- `tsnePlots/`: This directory contains the t-SNE plots of the latent space representations of the train set images.

## Getting Started

To get started with the project, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/latentghost/MNIST-Denoising-Autoencoder-Image-Generator.git
    ```

2. Install the required dependencies:

    ```shell
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Train the denoising AE, VAE, and CVAE models (change "T" to "F" to run without GPU acceleration):

    ```shell
    python train.py T
    ```

4. Generate new images using the trained CVAE model (Input a digit between 0 and 9):

    ```shell
    python generate.py <digit>
    ```

To test the models on your own dataset, uncomment the lines in `train.py` preceeded by the comment "For testing only" and replace the `TestData` object with your own dataset class that inherits from `torch.utils.data.Dataset`.

## Contributing

Contributions to this project are welcome. If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

See [LICENSE.md](LICENSE) for more details.